\section{The Dynamics Engine}

\htmlmenu{2}

GraspIt! has two main modes of operation. In the first one, which has
been assumed in all of the previous chapters, the user directly
interacts with the simulation world by moving objects around or moving
robot joint draggers. The collision detection system disallows any
movement that would bring two bodies in collision, and stops any such
movement at the point of contact. We refer to this operation mode as
"static operation".

In real life however, objects move around as a result of contact and
external forces. In GraspIt! these phenomena are taken into account
when using the dynamics engine. This engine computes the contact
forces that prevent interpenetration and the velocities and
accelerations of all the bodies in response to contact forces, joint
constraints and external forces. The resulting motion of the bodies is
integrated over time in a time-stepping procedure resulting in a full
simulation of a grasping process (as opposed to just assessing the
quality of a final grasping posture, as we do in static operation).

\subsection{User interaction in dynamics mode}

The key difference between static and dynamic operation is in the way
the user interacts with the simulation world. In statics, the user
directly moves bodies around, and sets robot joint values. None of
these are allowed in statics. The only way the user can affect the
simulation world is by setting desired values for the robot
DOF's. Built-in controllers for the robot DOF's take care of the rest,
simulating true dynamic operation. DOF controllers generate motor
forces; as a result of these robot joints move and potentially touch
other objects. Bodies are also affected by gravity, and will fall off
the world if they are not supported by an obstacle (such as a floor or
table). Obstacles are only part of the dynamics engine in the sense
that they provide contacts for other bodies. They never move in
dynamics.

Use the \texttt{Dynamics start} button in the toolbar to start or
pause the dynamics engine. While the engine is running, you should see
the dynamics timer advancing. During this time, you will see bodies
move as a result of gravity, or DOF motor forces if the desired DOF
values have been set. For a quick demo, see the Getting started
chapter of this manual.

Currently, the only way for a user to specify a desired position for a
robot in dynamics mode is to use the AutoGrasp feature. Use the Grasp
$\rightarrow$ Auto Grasp menu just as you would in statics. When dynamics are on,
this will set the robot desired DOF values at either the DOF max or
min, depending on the default velocity specified in the robot
configuration file. In the future, we intend to provide an interface
for a user to set desired robot DOF values during dynamics execution.

\subsection{DOF controllers}

The simulated DOF controllers have proven to be very difficult to
calibrate and tune. Currently, we are implementing PD controllers and
attempt to generate trajectories with smooth acceleration and velocity
profiles from current DOF values to desired DOF values. See the
\texttt{DOF::PDPositionController(...)} function for details. These
controllers are \textbf{very} sensitive to the proportional and
derivative gains used, and we have no better method of setting these
than empirical tuning. Even like this, for complex dynamic
simulations, we often see erratic behavior. We are hoping to improve
the DOF control mechanism in the future.

\subsection{Implementation}

For all the details on the dynamics engine implementation, see the
\link{Publications}{sec:publications} chapter. Here we provide just a
quick overview.

The dynamics engine works in time steps. At each time step, two main
tasks are performed:
\begin{itemize}
\item move all dynamic bodies according to the velocities computed at
  the previous time step. If any collision occurs, interpolate back in
  time until the exact moment of contact. Mark all the contacts in the
  world.
\item formulate solve a Linear Complementarity Problem (LCP) that
  gives us:
\begin{itemize}
\item the contact forces that prevent interpenetrations
\item the joint forces that keep the joints in place
\item the velocities of all the bodies in the world in response to the
  forces above, as well as external forces (motors, gravity, etc.)
\end{itemize}
\item see the dynamics-related functions in the \texttt{World} class
  for more details.
\end{itemize}

The core of the dynamics engine, and also its most important
computational effort, is the LCP solver. We have implemented a version
of Lemke's algorithm for this, found in the \texttt{dynamics.cpp}
file.

\subsection{Under development: dynamics improvements}

Unfortunately, the dynamics engine exhibits occasional instability,
which we would like to address in the future. These might be caused by
the LCP solver, the time step integration, or both. It has been
suggested by experts in the field that the LCP solver is the primary
suspect. We are hoping at some point to replace the current solver
with a better one, based on newer methods proposed in the literature.

We would also like to cut down on computation time by providing the
LCP with a "warm start" using the solution from the previous time
step. This is made more difficult by the fact that contacts are always
broken and then re-computed between time steps, making it harder to
keep track of previous time step solutions. We have put in place a
mechanism for "inheriting" contact parameters between time steps, you
will find this in the \texttt{Contact} class. However, with the
current LCP solver, we have not been able to obtain an improvement
using this information. Contact "inheritance" though has been left in
place (although disabled for now) in the hope that future LCP solvers
might be able to take advantage of it.
