\section{Grasp Quality Metrics}
\label{sec:quality}

\htmlmenu{2}

This section is intended as a practical guide on how to access the
grasp quality tools in GraspIt!. Grasp quality metrics are an active
area of research; for discussions of their theoretical aspects please
see the \link{Publications}{sec:publications} section.

In GraspIt!, a grasp is completely defined by an object and a set of
contacts, presumably created by a hand. In the context of grasp
quality computations, the posture of the hand, or it's position
relative to the object are not important; all that matters is the
location of the contacts. The interface to all of the quality
computations is the \texttt{Grasp} class, which collects the contact
between a hand and an object. However, an instance of this class never
needs to know about joint angles, etc (with a few exceptions listed
below).

In order to create a grasp, you must load a hand and an object into a
simulation world, then place them relative to each other and change
the joint values of the hand until multiple contacts are formed. To
facilitate this process, load the \texttt{dlr\_flask.wld} world file
provided with the GraspIt! distribution. Then use the Grasp $\rightarrow$ Auto
Grasp menu command. This should result in multiple contacts, using all
the fingers as well as the palm. We will investigate the quality of
the grasp in the following steps.

\subsection{Grasp Wrench Space metrics}

All the grasp quality metrics computed in GraspIt! rely on building
the Grasp Wrench Space (GWS) from the individual Contact Wrench Spaces
of all contacts (see \link{Publications}{sec:publications} for
theoretical details). There are multiple ways to build a GWS, and then
multiple ways to compute a quality metric on one. In GraspIt! a
Quality Measure (QM) is more than just a number - it is an object that
hangs around from the moment you create it until you dismiss it. At
any point, you can ask a QM to update itself and provide you the
computed quality value. You can access this functionality through the
Grasp $\rightarrow$ Quality measures menu. The Quality measures window allows you
to:
\begin{itemize}
\item create a new Quality Measure, and assign it:
\begin{itemize}
\item a name
\item a Quality Measure type
\item a GWS type
\end{itemize}
\item edit (change the name or type) of an already built Quality Measure
\end{itemize}

Once you have constructed a QM, the main GraspIt! window will display
it, along with the most recently computed value, in the space provided
in the lower left corner of the GUI.

Note that this dialog said nothing of GWS construction. The GraspIt!
GUI does all that behind the scenes. Whenever a QM needs a particular
type of GWS, one is constructed. However, multiple QM's can share a
GWS: if a QM requests a GWS type that exists already, it will be
redirected to the existing GWS rather than building a new
one. GraspIt! does the reference counting for you, so when a GWS is no
longer needed by any QM, it is deleted. In general, it is building the
GWS that is the computationally expensive part of the QM computation.

From a code standpoint, quality measures are organized as follows:
\begin{itemize}
\item the \texttt{Grasp} class keeps track of the hand, the object and
  the contacts between them
\item the implementations of the \texttt{QualityMeasure} interface can
  compute quality metrics and provide you with the results. Any
  implementation of QualityMeasure needs an instance of a \texttt{GWS}
  class (but the same instance of the \texttt{GWS} class may be shared
  by multiple \texttt{QualityMeasures}).
\item the \texttt{GWS} implementations actually build the GWS from the
  set of contacts. This is usually done by computing the convex hull
  of individual Contact Wrench Spaces using QHull, an excellent
  library for building high-dimensional convex hulls. Building a GWS
  is a fairly expensive process (especially when many contacts are
  involved) and a bottleneck for many GraspIt! algorithms.
\end{itemize}

In general, a GWS is a 6-dimensional convex polyhedron. As such, it
can not be visualized directly. However, GraspIt! allows you to view
3D projections of a GWS. Use the Grasp $\rightarrow$ Create GWS Projection menu
for that. You will need to choose which 3D are fixed (used for
projection). Note that a GWS (and its projections) are independent
from Quality Measures - you do not need a QM to visualize a
GWS. However, if the GWS does not contain the origin (the grasp does
not have form-closure), or the GWS is a degenerate 6D object, the GWS
construction process might be aborted and the visualization might not
show anything. In general, form-closed grasps with a true 6D GWS
create correct 3D projections.

\subsection{Under development: Grasp Force Optimization}

All of the QM's discussed above share a common trait: they assume that
the amount of normal force that can be applied at each contact is
identical, and normalized to magnitude 1. In practice this is not
true: a given contact can only apply the level of normal force that is
possible given the actuation of the hand. A great amount of
theoretical work exists on taking hand actuation into account when
evaluating a grasp. In GraspIt! we have two tools for this, but one of
them has never been extensively used or tested, and the other is still
under development.

The first tool is an implementation of the Grasp Force Optimization
approach proposed by L. Han, J. Trinkle, and Z. Li, \textit{Grasp
  analysis as linear matrix inequality problems}, IEEE Trans. on
Robotics and Automation, vol. 16, 2000. GraspIt! has the code
necessary for all the concepts found in that paper, however, this part
of the code has not been tested or used lately. It can all be found in
the \texttt{Grasp} class, marked as Grasp Force Optimization
(\texttt{GFO}) code.

The second tool is somewhat similar, but employs a different
mathematical model (Quadratic Programming instead of Linear Matrix
Inequalities) and is geared towards underactuated compliant hands. It
performs a Quasi-static (QS) force equilibrium computation to see
whether contacts are stable given the actuation scheme of the
robot. All the details are in the
\link{Publications}{sec:publications} chapter of this manual. The code
itself is also in the \texttt{Grasp} class, marked as quasi-static
analysis routines. However, this is still work in progress in our lab,
so use with care. Also see the \link{Joint coupling}{sec:coupling}
chapter of this manual for more details on DOF force generation
capabilities in GraspIt!.
