\section{Grasp Planning}

\htmlmenu{2}

\subsection{General concepts and planner types}

Grasp planning is one the most useful (and most widely used) tools in
GraspIt!. The core of this process is the ability of the system to
evaluate many hand postures quickly, and from a functional point of
view (i.e. through grasp quality measures). Using a simulated
environment allows us to test grasps much much faster than in real
life, and also at a lower cost. The quality metrics give us feedback
on the grasps, often more than just a binary success / fail
outcome. This is therefore the general concept: try out lots of grasps
really fast and see which work. Of course, there is an infinite number
of possible implementations, optimizations, refinements, etc. that can
be played starting from this simplified idea. GraspIt! comes with a
couple of grasp planners, each of them different in its own way, but
all have roots in the same concept presented above.

The grasp planners within GraspIt! are grouped in three families:
\begin{itemize}
\item the Primitive-based Planner, primitive not in the sense that it
  is ancient but rather in the sense that it uses primitive
  decompositions for the grasped object.
\item the Eigengrasp Planner family, which relies on hand posture
  space dimensionality reduction.
\item the Database Planner family, which relies on a huge database of
  pre-computed grasps to plan grasps for novel objects.
\end{itemize}

This section only presents the Primitive-based Planner; the other two
families have their own sections in this manual.

All the types of grasp planners have been extensively described in
various publications. If you are interested in the machinery behind
the scenes and the theory of the planners, the
\link{Publications}{sec:publications} section has many more details
than presented here.

\subsection{The Primitive-based Grasp Planner}

The Primitive-based Planner is accessible via the Grasp $\rightarrow$ Planner
menu. It has a couple of restrictions: it only works on the Barrett
hand, and only if the user also supplies a primitive approximation of
the object to be grasped. When the Planner dialog is opened, GraspIt!
will attempt to load the primitive version of the current object from
the \texttt{\$GRASPIT/models/objects/primitives} directory. In order
to create a primitive file, see the examples in the primitives
directory that are included with the distribution. Note that a
primitive file may only include spheres, cubes, cylinders and
cones. For more details, see the relevant publication.

The Planner itself goes through 2 stages. The Planner dialog window
has two groups, one for each stage. The first stage (accessed through
the button group on the left) is to generate many pre-grasps for your
object. Pre-grasps are generated based on the primitive version of
your object. You can generate as many pre-grasps as your computational
resources and allocated time will allow you to test. The number of
pre-grasps generated is controlled by the density factors. You can
either choose a master density factor (Automated sampling) and allow
GraspIt! to do the rest, or choose sampling densities along different
dimensions separately. Alternatively, you can pre-specify the exact
pre-grasps to be tested by loading them from a file, which is useful
for debug purposes. Once you have set the desired parameters, click
the Generate button to generate your pre-grasps.

The second stage is to compute the grasps that result from the chosen
pre-grasps. Note that grasp execution is done on the actual object
(even though pre-grasps are generated on the simplified primitive
version). You can also choose which Quality Measure should be used to
rank these grasps. If a usable QM exists already, you can select it
from the drop-down list. If not, use the New button to fire up the QM
creation dialog and create a new one. Once you have set the desired
metric, you are ready to test all the pre-grasps by clicking the Test
button.

After testing is finished, the hand will be set back to its initial
position and the Show button will become enabled. Use the Show button
to cycle through the list of found grasps, sorted in order of the
Quality Metric.

\textbf{IMPORTANT}: you can choose to visualize the testing process by
checking the Visualize process box. This means that the process of
executing all the grasps will be rendered, and you can see the hand
trying out each of them. You must check the Visualize box
\textbf{before} clicking the Generate button for this to
work. Visualization makes for a more compelling demo, but rendering
slows down the planning process considerably. For time-sensitive
applications, we recommend disabling the visualization.

When rendering is disabled, we have found that the computational
bottleneck for the Primitive-based planner is collision and contact
detection.
