\section{Introduction}

\htmlmenu{2}

\subsection{What GraspIt! is}

GraspIt! was created to serve as a tool for grasping research. It is a
simulator that can accommodate arbitrary hand and robot designs. It
can also load objects and obstacles of arbitrary geometry to populate
a complete simulation world. The GraspIt! engine includes a rapid
collision detection and contact determination system that allows a
user to interactively manipulate a robot or an object and create
contacts between them. Once a grasp is created, one of the key
features of the simulator is the set of grasp quality metrics. Each
grasp is evaluated with numeric quality measures, and visualization
methods allow the user to see the weak point of the grasp and create
arbitrary 3D projections of the 6D grasp wrench space.

In our experience, we have found that GraspIt! usually serves one of
two purposes. First, it can be used as a development tool, to execute
and test various robot control algorithms. In this sense, it serves as
a replacement for the real world: in simulation, an algorithm can be
tested on many hand designs, many objects and obstacle configurations,
at no cost and much faster than in the real world. Second, GraspIt!
can be used as a computational platform that backs up a robot that
does operate in the real world. For example, a real robot can acquire a
model of a target object, then use GraspIt! to quickly evaluate
multiple grasping or manipulation scenarios. Often, these scenarios
are also combined and the same GraspIt! setup used for development of
an algorithm can also be used for computations during real life
execution.

GraspIt! has many features that help accomplish these roles; all of
these features are documented in the second part of this manual. The
most commonly used include the contact detection and grasp quality
metrics mentioned above, the dynamics engine and the grasp planning
capabilities. The dynamics engine within GraspIt! computes the motions
of a group of connected robot elements, such as an arm and a hand,
under the influence of controlled motor forces, joint constraint
forces, contact forces and external forces. This allows a user to
dynamically simulate an entire grasping task, as well as test custom
robot control algorithms. The grasp planning algorithms rely on the
simulated environment to quickly evaluate many hand postures, and
find those that lead to stable grasps. There are many possible
implementations of this concept; the planners that are included with
GraspIt! can usually find multiple stable grasps of an object in less
than 1 minute, taking into account obstacles and other constraints.

Overall, GraspIt! is an open-source virtual environment for simulating
robotic grasping tasks accompanied by a number of analysis and
development tools. It has been developed in C++ using many other
open-source libraries, and is cross-platform, tested on both Windows
and Ubuntu Linux.

\subsection{What GraspIt! is NOT}

GraspIt! is not an off-the-shelf product. It is rather a large
codebase that is the result of many years of research and development
in the Robotics Lab at Columbia University. The tools included can
greatly help in the development and testing of new algorithms and
approaches. However, we have often found that most new interesting
problems can not be completely addressed by applying these tools
exactly as they are. It is very possible that, in the process, you
will find yourself needing various changes or additions to the
simulator; these might be bigger or smaller depending on your
problem. This means that you might have to get your hands dirty and
tinker with the code itself, which we encourage you to do. We have
done our best to create clean, robust and well-documented
code. However, we are not a large team of product development software
engineers; rather, we are a small group of robotics researchers. As a
result, do not be surprised if you find parts of the code that can be
improved.

\subsection{About this manual}

This manual is divided into two parts. The first one, containing
\textbf{Chapters 1 through 4}, is an introduction to the GraspIt!
environment, covering the essential aspects for loading and populating
a GraspIt!  world and interacting with it. The references to the
source code are kept at a minimum. In the second part, containing
\textbf{Chapters 5 through 17}, we discuss the GraspIt! advanced
features, or the tools that it offers for solving various
problems. Here we overlap discussions of the simulator as a final
product with discussion of the source code itself. We also introduce a
number of features of GraspIt!  that are not completely finished yet,
and might not be very robust, but have been included in the
distribution in the hope you might find them useful. Such features
will be marked by the qualifier "Under Development" - only use them if
you're not afraid of delving inside the code to get the most out of
them and fix an occasional bug.

Please note that, much like the code itself, this manual is under
continuous development. There are many aspects that it does not touch
at all, or explains too briefly. If there is a topic that you found
particularly confusing, or you would like to see expanded, we would
appreciate your feedback.

\subsection{Troubleshooting and contact}

GraspIt! includes two main resources: this manual, and a complete code
reference. We have put a lot of work into both of them, and we
strongly encourage you to try using them to solve your problem before
contacting us. If that fails, we will try to provide support via
email; write us at \texttt{graspit@lists.cs.columbia.edu}. General
comments on the simulator, and any patches or improvements to the code
are always appreciated.

\subsection{Authors and acknowledgements}

\textbf{Andrew Miller} and \textbf{Matei Ciocarlie} are the main
authors of GraspIt!, having designed most of its features and
implemented most of the code. The GraspIt! simulator was developed in
the Robotics Lab, Department of Computer Science, Columbia University,
under the guidance of \textbf{Prof. Peter Allen}.

Many people contributed to GraspIt!, either in the form of new ideas,
suggestions or guidance, or by implementing new features in
code. These include: \textbf{Prof. Jeff Trinkle}, who provided
valuable advice on the dynamics system; \textbf{Danica Kragic} who
developed the real time vision system allowing GraspIt! to work with
real robots; \textbf{Prof. Henrik Christensen} and \textbf{Steffen
  Knoop} who helped build the automatic grasp planner; \textbf{Raphael
  Pelossof}, who implemented the first GraspIt! based machine learning
approach; \textbf{Claire Lackner}, who helped design and implement the
soft finger contact algorithms; \textbf{Corey Goldfeder}, who was the
driving force behind the Columbia Grasp Database (CGDB) which is now
integrated with GraspIt!; \textbf{Hao Dang} who wrote the GraspIt! -
CGDB interface, and made many other contributions to the codebase;
\textbf{Norases Vesdapunt}, who wrote the XML interface for data
files. We would like to thank all of them for their valuable
contributions.

Thanks to Prof. Gerd Hirzinger and Dr. Max Fischer, Prof. Contantinos
Mavroidis and Katheryn DeLaurentis, Dr. Myron Diftler, Marco Reichel,
the Shadow Robot Company, Marius Stuecheli and Dr. Tamim Asfour for
providing us with models of their robotic hands. The M7 Robot geometry
was provided courtesy of SRI International.

We would also like to thank \textbf{Willow Garage} for their support
towards this new, GPL-licensed release, and for their commitment
towards open-source and freely available code.

