\section{Joint Coupling and Underactuated Hands}
\label{sec:coupling}

\htmlmenu{2}

In the chapters so far we have used the terms "joint" and "DOF" as if
they were the same thing, and one DOF always correspond to one and
only one joint. This is not always true in real hand models, and it is
not always true in GraspIt! either. GraspIt! allows you to connect
multiple joints to a single DOF (joint coupling) and allows support
for multiple coupling methods.

The best way to think of a DOF in GraspIt! is as a motor. It is
responsible for moving the joints of a robot, and it is the only
external interface to the robot available for doing that. In the
GraspIt! GUI, joint draggers are not actually "joint" draggers but
rather "DOF" dragger: only one dragger is presented to the user for
each DOF. In the case of the Barrett hand for example, you will notice
that there is only one dragger per finger, even though each finger has
two joints. Moving the one dragger however affects both joints, as
they are coupled to the same DOF.

In a fully actuated robot, there is one motor for each joint. In many
cases however, we have joint coupling, that is multiple joints
connected to a single DOF. The key aspect here is how exactly this
coupling is implemented from a hardware standpoint, and whether we can
replicate that in software.

A GraspIt! DOF is responsible for telling us how all of the joints
that are attached to it respond to changes in the DOF. This
intelligence is built into the DOF class and its
implementations. Depending on how the joint coupling is achieved, DOF
behave differently, which is why there are multiple
implementations. The most important question is: when one of the
joints of a DOF can not move (presumably due to some contact on its
links), what happens to the other joints connected to the same DOF?

In dynamics mode, a DOF is also responsible for enforcing the same
mode of operation. This is done via "DOF constraints" which must be
built into the LCP solved by the dynamics engine. For instance, a
rigidly coupled DOF must ensure that all of its joints always move at
the same rate. Finally, the DOF is also responsible for applying
forces to its joints (which then pass them on to the links) in
dynamics mode. This is the only way of moving a Robot in
dynamics. Force generation capabilities also depend on the
implementation of the DOF, see the classes described below for
details.

\subsection{Rigid coupling}

The simplest type of coupling is rigid, implemented in practice
through gear transmission of steel cables. This means that whenever
one joint from a DOF stops moving, all the other joints from the same
DOF stop as well. In code, this is implemented in the RigidDOF
class. Most hands in GraspIt! use this kind of underactuation
(Robonaut, DLR, the 16 DOF version of the HumanHand).  See the
\texttt{RigidDOF} class for details.

\subsection{Breakaway transmission}

This kind of coupling allows a distal joint to "break away" and
continue to close if a proximal link has been stopped. The break away
point is marked, and the proximal joint is only re-engaged if the DOF
goes back to the break away point. This is the type of transmission
built into the Barrett hand. In code, this is the
\texttt{BreakAwayDOF}, see this class for details.

\subsection{Under development: compliant joints}

This is the transmission achieved in practice through tendon networks
and compliant (spring-like) joints. It is more difficult to simulate
that the BreakawayDOF, as stopped joints are always connected to the
DOF. In the code, this is the \texttt{CompliantDOF}. However, this is
still an active area of research for us, and this kind of DOF has
proven difficult to simulate in static mode.

For the compliant DOF we have also built a mechanism for hand
quasistatic analysis. This mechanism exists for any kind of DOF, but
is only relevant for the compliant one: due to its nature, the
Compliant DOF will apply some unbalanced forces through existing
contacts during the hand closing process. The Compliant DOF is thus
responsible for computing these forces, which are then passed on to
the quasi-static computation. This computation is then performed by
the \texttt{Grasp} class; also see the \link{Grasp quality
  metrics}{sec:quality} chapter for details. A complete description of
this engine and its applications can be found in the
\link{Publications}{sec:publications} chapter.
